WhaleCall — Live Site Audit

Tested: https://whalecall.replit.app — landing, /emergency, /book, /trip/:id, /fleet, /profile, /sign-in, 404 routes Method: full click-through of both flows, network + API inspection, DOM/accessibility checks Verdict: The booking flow works end to end. The emergency flow — your flagship feature — fails 100% of the time. Fix that first; everything else is secondary.

🔴 CRITICAL — fix before judging
1. SOS dispatch is completely broken (every attempt fails)

What happens: Complete the Response mode intake → "Send for help" → red text: "Dispatch could not be reached. Try again." Retrying never works.

Verified root cause: POST /api/emergencies returns HTTP 400 with body:

json
{"error":"No rescue boat is currently available."}

The frontend payload is correct — {"situation":"medical","position":{"lat":18.42,"lng":-64.61},"notes":"","tripId":null}. The failure is server-side data.

Pulling /api/fleet (72 boats) confirms it:

Metric	Value
Total boats	72
emergencyEquipped: true	8
Those 8 boats' status	all 8 are en_route
emergencyEquipped boats with status available	0

Your own /fleet page prints the smoking gun in its header: RESCUE READY: 0.

The dispatcher presumably filters emergencyEquipped === true && status === 'available', which matches zero boats — always.

Fix (pick one, do the first now):

Seed fix (2 minutes): set the 8 Sea Guard rescue boats to status: 'available' in your seed data. Ship this immediately.
Resilience fix (15 minutes): if no rescue boat is available, fall back to the nearest en_route rescue boat (an emergency should preempt a routine trip — that's a great judge talking point), then to any available boat, and only then fail.
Guard: add a startup assertion or a tiny test that fleet.filter(b => b.emergencyEquipped && b.status === 'available').length > 0, so this can't silently regress.
2. Error messages hide the real failure

Two different backend errors both render as generic connectivity messages:

Real API error	What the user sees
No rescue boat is currently available.	"Dispatch could not be reached. Try again."
No boats are available in that class right now.	"We could not reach the dock. Please try again."

A judge clicking SOS concludes your server is down. It isn't — the request completed fine. Worse, the message tells them to retry, which can never succeed.

Fix: surface response.json().error instead of a hardcoded string, and reserve "could not be reached" for actual network/fetch exceptions.

🟠 HIGH — these cost you points with judges
3. The priority-triage system isn't in the product

This was your differentiator and it isn't there. The emergency intake collects only: situation category (4 options), free-text notes, coordinates. There is no age bracket, no accessibility needs, no medical severity, no priority score, no queue, and no dispatcher view. GET /api/emergencies returns 404, so there's no queue to display.

Right now WhaleCall is "Uber for boats with an SOS button" — the inclusivity angle that made the concept distinctive is missing entirely. If you have time for exactly one feature addition, make it this: three icon rows on the intake + a computed priority score shown on the confirmation screen ("Priority 8 — you are first in the queue"). Even without a dispatcher view, showing the score proves the logic exists.

4. You can book a trip from an island to itself

Coral Cove → Coral Cove, and even Cove Landing → Cove Landing, are both selectable. The map cheerfully renders "Route plotted across the island chain" with a dotted line to nowhere. Clicking Continue then does nothing at all — no error, no explanation. The user is stuck with no idea why.

Fix: filter the departure island/dock out of the arrival dropdowns, and always show a validation message when a submit is blocked.

5. Passenger count isn't checked against boat capacity

Passengers accepts up to 16, but a Water taxi holds 4. Requesting 16 passengers on a water taxi submits happily and fails server-side with the misleading "could not reach the dock" message.

Fix: filter the Boat class dropdown by passenger count (or grey out classes that can't fit), and show capacity next to each option — "Water taxi · up to 4".

6. No fare shown before booking

Your landing page promises "Clear pricing. No surge. No mystery dock." — but the fare ($181.68) only appears after you've committed to the trip. That's the exact opposite of the promise, and a judge reading your own copy will notice.

Fix: show an estimated fare on step 3 before "Call my boat." Also round it — $181.68 for a boat ride reads like a floating-point artifact.

7. Live tracking isn't live

On the trip page the boat marker and the "46 minutes until we reach you" ETA never change — verified over 20+ seconds of observation. There's no polling or WebSocket updating position.

Fix: a setInterval that interpolates the boat's position between origin and destination and decrements the ETA is enough. This is your best visual demo moment and it currently doesn't move.

🟡 MEDIUM — polish that judges will see
Raw database slugs shown to users. The trip page displays From: coral-cove / To: mango-harbor instead of "Coral Cove" / "Mango Harbor". Very visible on the screen you'll be demoing.
Broken nav link. "Book a crossing" in the header points to /, not /book.
Boat marker is out of scale. On the trip map the boat is a giant teal ellipse that overlaps and nearly covers the departure island.
Every boat looks identical. All 72 fleet cards use the same tan ellipse illustration — a rescue boat, a catamaran, and a speedboat are visually indistinguishable. Even simple color/shape variation per class would help.
Sign-in page breaks your brand. The Clerk-hosted /sign-in is a flat dark-teal page with no site nav and none of the tropical theme. Style it via Clerk's appearance config to match.
The island concept is half-implemented. Islands carry only hasRescueStation — there's no hospital / school / store / city island as designed, and every island card says the same "2 public docks." Adding a facilities field and showing icons per island is cheap and restores the theme.
No search, no clickable map. Island selection is plain native <select> dropdowns; the chart illustration is decorative and non-interactive. Making the 7 islands clickable on the SVG would take minutes and dramatically improve the demo.
Huge empty space below the card on /emergency (and /book) at desktop width — roughly the bottom half of the screen is dead black/cream.
Redundant floating button. "Need help on the water" floats over the /emergency page itself, where it's already the whole point of the page.
♿ ACCESSIBILITY — relevant because inclusivity is your pitch

Failing:

Pinch-zoom is disabled. Your viewport meta is width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1. maximum-scale=1 blocks zoom — a WCAG 2.1 AA failure (1.4.4 Resize Text). Delete maximum-scale=1. This is a one-character fix and a bad thing for an accessibility-themed app to be caught on.
Tap targets far too small in the emergency flow. "Use my location" and "Cancel" are 16px tall — the guideline is 44px. These are the controls a panicking or elderly user needs most.
Header nav links are 36px tall, also under 44px.

Passing (worth mentioning to judges):

All images have alt text; no unlabeled buttons or links.
lang="en" is set.
404 pages ("That dock isn't here." / "A small squall.") are well designed and on-theme — nice touch.
⚠️ DEMO-DAY RISK

State looks in-memory and it drains. Booking a trip flipped boat-8 to on_trip and the landing page's live counter went 55 → 54 and stayed there. Two consequences:

Every test run permanently consumes a boat. Enough rehearsals and you could exhaust a class mid-demo and hit "No boats are available in that class" live in front of judges.
Replit apps sleep and cold-start. If it restarts during judging, all trips vanish (though it would also reset the fleet, which is the one silver lining).

Fix: auto-release boats after N minutes, add a hidden /api/reset endpoint you can hit before your demo, and do a fresh warm-up load of the site 2 minutes before you present so it isn't cold-starting while judges watch.

Recommended order for your remaining time
Seed the rescue boats as available — SOS goes from 0% to working. (minutes)
Show real API error text — no more fake "network" failures. (minutes)
Remove maximum-scale=1 and bump the emergency-flow tap targets. (minutes)
Map slugs to island names on the trip page. (minutes)
Fix the "Book a crossing" nav href. (seconds)
Block same-island bookings + always show a validation message. (~15 min)
Add the triage fields + priority score to the SOS intake. (~45 min — highest judge value)
Animate the boat + count down the ETA on the trip page. (~30 min — best visual moment)
Fare estimate before booking; capacity-aware boat class list.
Cosmetic: boat marker scale, per-class boat art, Clerk theming.